What is Immersive Technology
Any technology that enables digital experience in the realm of the physical world is Immersive Technology.

The focus of Immersive Technology is to combine a virtual, computer-generated world with the physical world such that it forms a perception to the human user of experiencing both the worlds at the same time.
----------------------------------------
Immersive Technologies come in 3 flavors:

Virtual Reality (VR) - Head Mounted Devices (HMD) Completely cut off from real world and presents simulated world that is the only perception of the world. User interactions (Gestures, Speech, Movement) cause a reaction within the virtual world.
Augmented Reality (AR) - Devices (Mobiles, HMDs) that present both virtual and real worlds forming a dual perception of the world. For a user, the virtual world does not recognize the physical, but both are controlled by user interactions.
Mixed Reality (MR) = Devices (Mobiles, HMDs) that present both the worlds such that the virtual world recognizes the physical and creates a close-to-reality perception of the world.
----------------------------------------
A 3D world is delivered through a projector that is reflected through mirror’s/prisms into the eye. User interacts with the digital world using gestures – such as hand movements, fingers, full-body movement etc., gaze – which is locking on a virtual object with eyes, Voice – by speaking directly with the system. All these devices track the user interactions by using Sensors and Microphones within the HMD.

Gaze is tracked when an IR sensor reflects an IR beam into the light, and a receptor calculates the angle of reflection from the cornea to map it into the real world object.

A technique known as real world mapping is used to identify objects in the real space.

----------------------------------------
The Microsoft Hololens is an HMD that uses specialized hardware that runs on Windows 10 OS and delivers a virtual world as a Universal Windows Platform (UWP) App.

It is a Mixed Reality device that works on the principles described earlier. It maps out the real world objects using Area and Position mapping mechanism – that draws out the existing surfaces in the room before starting the virtual world.

The device allows all of the user interactions discussed earlier, and is mounted with sensors, speakers and microphones to create the experience of mixed reality.

----------------------------------------
More on Microsoft Hololens
Software development for the Microsoft Hololens is done using Visual Studio. It creates a UWP App on Windows 10 OS that is targeted to the Hololens hardware.
The virtual world can be created either directly using Visual Studio and Microsoft DirectX programming in C++ OR by using gaming engines such as Unity, Vuforia or Cocos Engine. Unity is the most popular development platform.
The design of the virtual world is done in Unity using the Unity Editor, which then exports a VS solution. This solution is compiled to form the UWP App that executes on the Hololens.
Microsoft provides a Holo emulator which can be used to create and test programs.
